README.md, before:

pg_check
========
An extension that provides basic consistency checking functionality for
tables and b-tree indexes. Currently this performs basic checks at the
page and item level, for example:

* page header features (lower <= upper <= special etc.)
* items not overlapping
* attributes not overflowing the tuple end
* invalid varlena sizes (negative or over 1GB, ...)

Moreover it's possible to cross-check the table and indexes, i.e. to
check if there are any missing / superfluous items in the index
(compared to the heap).

This extension **does not** implement correcting any of the issues,
nor it fully checks the index structure (except for the generic page
checks mentioned above). The extension does not support index types
other than b-tree (yet).


Installation
------------

This is a regular extension (9.1) or a contrib module (9.0), so it may be
installed rather easily - do either this

    $ make install
    $ psql dbname -c "CREATE EXTENSION pg_check"

or this (on 9.0)

    $ make install
    $ psql dbname < `pg_config --sharedir`/contrib/pg_check--0.1.0.sql

and the extension should be installed.


Functions
---------

Currently there are four functions available

 * `pg_check_table(name, blk_from, blk_to)` - checks range of blocks of
    the heap table
 * `pg_check_table(name, checkIndexes, crossCheck)` - checks the table
    with the options to check all indexes on it, and even cross-checking
    the indexes with the table
 * `pg_check_index(name, blk_from, blk_to)` - checks range of blocks for
    the index
 * `pg_check_index(name)` - checks a single index

So if you want to check table "my_table" and all the indexes on it, do this:

    db=# SELECT pg_check_table('my_table', true, true);

and it will print out info about the checks (and return number of issues).


GUC options
-----------

The extension (once loaded) uses these two options:

 * `pg_check.debug = {true | false}`
 * `pg_check.bitmap_format = {binary, base64, hex, none}`

The first one allows you to enable debug output when cross-checking the
table and indexes - by default it's set to `false` and by setting it to
true the extension will print details about the bitmaps.

The bimap may be printed in several formats - "binary" (as a sequence of
0s and 1s), "hex" (hexa-decimal) or "base64" (the usual base64 encoding).
Or it may be disabled by "none" (thus only basic info about the bitmap
will be printed). By default the format is "binary".

This is intended for debugging purposes only, the amount of information
printed may be significant (even megabytes).


Messages
--------

The functions may print various info about the blocks/tuples, depending on
the client_min_messages level.

* `WARNING` - only info about actual issues
* `DEBUG1` - info about pages
* `DEBUG2` - info about tuples on a page
* `DEBUG3` - info about attributes of a tuple


License
-------

This software is provided under the BSD license. See LICENSE for details.

Commit message:

Added info about lock modes to the README.

README.md, after:

pg_check
========
An extension that provides basic consistency checking functionality for
tables and b-tree indexes. Currently this performs basic checks at the
page and item level, for example:

* page header features (lower <= upper <= special etc.)
* items not overlapping
* attributes not overflowing the tuple end
* invalid varlena sizes (negative or over 1GB, ...)

Moreover it's possible to cross-check the table and indexes, i.e. to
check if there are any missing / superfluous items in the index
(compared to the heap).

This extension **does not** implement correcting any of the issues,
nor it fully checks the index structure (except for the generic page
checks mentioned above). The extension does not support index types
other than b-tree (yet).


Installation
------------

This is a regular extension (9.1) or a contrib module (9.0), so it may be
installed rather easily - do either this

    $ make install
    $ psql dbname -c "CREATE EXTENSION pg_check"

or this (on 9.0)

    $ make install
    $ psql dbname < `pg_config --sharedir`/contrib/pg_check--0.1.0.sql

and the extension should be installed.


Functions
---------

Currently there are four functions available

 * `pg_check_table(name, blk_from, blk_to)` - checks range of blocks of
    the heap table
 * `pg_check_table(name, checkIndexes, crossCheck)` - checks the table
    with the options to check all indexes on it, and even cross-checking
    the indexes with the table
 * `pg_check_index(name, blk_from, blk_to)` - checks range of blocks for
    the index
 * `pg_check_index(name)` - checks a single index

So if you want to check table "my_table" and all the indexes on it, do this:

    db=# SELECT pg_check_table('my_table', true, true);

and it will print out info about the checks (and return number of issues).

Be very careful about running the `pg_check_table` with `crossCheck=true`
because that means a more restrictive lock mode (SHARE ROW EXCLUSIVE) is
needed instead of the ACCESS SHARE lock used with `crossCheck=false`.

So use cross-checking wisely, as it prevents any modification of the data
(table or indexes). This may even cause deadlocks, if another process
acquires the locks in different order (index before table). The lock
on the table is held the whole time, the locks on the indexes are acquired
only when checking the indexes (so there's always at most one index locked).


GUC options
-----------

The extension (once loaded) uses these two options:

 * `pg_check.debug = {true | false}`
 * `pg_check.bitmap_format = {binary, base64, hex, none}`

The first one allows you to enable debug output when cross-checking the
table and indexes - by default it's set to `false` and by setting it to
true the extension will print details about the bitmaps.

The bimap may be printed in several formats - "binary" (as a sequence of
0s and 1s), "hex" (hexa-decimal) or "base64" (the usual base64 encoding).
Or it may be disabled by "none" (thus only basic info about the bitmap
will be printed). By default the format is "binary".

This is intended for debugging purposes only, the amount of information
printed may be significant (even megabytes).


Messages
--------

The functions may print various info about the blocks/tuples, depending on
the client_min_messages level.

* `WARNING` - only info about actual issues
* `DEBUG1` - info about pages
* `DEBUG2` - info about tuples on a page
* `DEBUG3` - info about attributes of a tuple


License
-------

This software is provided under the BSD license. See LICENSE for details.
